lately I've been reading four different
books at the same time which is not a
humble brag
the result is you don't really make that
much progress in any one of those four
books one of them is this tome from
Bernie Sanders the book he wrote to help
get himself elected oh there's the dust
jacket our revolution and you know I've
been talking to a lot of people who
describe themselves as socialists I've
describe themselves as communists and
have had to reflect a great deal on the
profound evil influence that is in their
lives I've had a lot of videos here
talking about socialism what it means in
principle what it means the theory what
it means in practice but psychologically
and ethically the belief in socialism
these people have I will I would not
hesitate to say that it's influence in
their life is evil give you an example
real quick I had this same conversation
repeatedly past couple of weeks talked
to someone who admits that yes communist
dictatorships killed millions of people
yes
communist dictatorships you know were
economic failures not just in the sense
of underperforming but also of having
you know mass starvation at various
times this kind of thing to say they
were underperforming would be an
understatement
but then they basically say to me don't
throw the baby out with the bathwater
and when one guy said that to me
literally those the actual words he used
he said you know what that reminds me of
I said to him you reminded me of an
incident decades ago at a Green Party
event this is the ecological party in
Canada which is a farce Green Party of
Canada and this woman walks up to me and
starts talking to me and she's not like
wearing a swastika or anything
but as this conversation goes on it
becomes clear that she is literally a
Nazi I mean I was a lot younger but also
I just do not go to a Green Party event
I have expect to run into a real living
breathing Nazi face to face but they're
out there they're not just trolls on the
Internet okay all right
this woman is telling me with absolutely
no irony and no punchline how she has a
really high opinion of the forestry
policy and the farming policies of Adolf
Hitler this conversation now but you
know what I don't care what you tell me
about farming and forestry under the
Third Reich I'm gonna go ahead and throw
the baby out with the bathwater on that
one like you know what I've never read
anything about it I have never read
anything good or bad about like timber
production and what Adolf Hitler said I
just don't know but there is absolutely
no chance that what you're gonna tell me
is so positive on that isolated topic
that I'm gonna take a step back and like
reevaluate the significance of Adolf
Hitler the Nazis no I'm not gonna say
anything positive about that period of
history in Germany because of this
anecdote you're presented with but you
know there's something else going on
here
it's also possible it's even likely that
what you're telling me about forestry
and farming is propaganda produced by
neo-nazis right you know the guy was
talking he got it immediately the
particular guy in this particular
conversation and a couple days ago it's
like you know there's nothing you can
say to me about communism in this
anecdotal way that's gonna make me think
it was good or excusable that Lenin
massacred
that the opposition party the
that actually won the elections in 1917
that he hunted down and killed the
winners of the election did carry out
his terrible could a death there's
nothing you can't say to me well you
know the USSR they had this space
program and they put a man in space
therefore it doesn't matter that nobody
had the right to vote therefore doesn't
matter that nobody had the freedom to
criticize the government in the press
these basic basic things nothing is ever
gonna compensate for that this is not a
situation where you can say you know
don't throw the baby out with the
bathwater and what I see happening on
the internet again and again is that
socialism you know and socialism need
not be able for example as Bernie
Sanders defined it need not necessarily
be evil but in practice it is evil
because what what the commies do what
the far-left does right now in 2019 is
they present socialism as one step one
stage on the development towards
communism and they tell people well if
you approve of socialism then therefore
you must inexorably and inevitably
approve of communism as the end goal of
that development now that is not the
position Bernie Sanders takes Bernie
Sanders says you look at the United
States you look at Denmark or Scotland
and the United States should make a
transition to being more like Denmark or
Scotland his view of the world is that
socialism is the destination and by
socialism he means a mixed system of
liberal capitalist economy like they
have in Denmark with a stock market and
freedom of the press and elections but
where there's a high tax rate and those
taxes are used to take care of the poor
to provide health care or to provide
university education these are the
benefits that's that's what Bernie
Sanders has day now it deserves to be
asked
why is the term Sabine used with that at
all maybe it home maybe by the year 2021
maybe just a few years from now these
terms will have become mutually
disambiguated I don't know but the far
left including the Communists they are
really out there trying to recruit and
they're trying to use socialism as the
hook or socialism as the slippery slope
you know to take people in and I've got
to tell you reading Bernie Sanders book
I respect him less than I did before
reading the book the the economic wisdom
of Bernie Sanders boils down to him
saying make America great again
it boils down to Bernie Sanders
literally pointing at Detroit and saying
look at how what what a great industrial
powerhouse Detroit used to be and how
great that manufacturing base was for
the poor and the middle class and talk
talks of one of the woes and if you want
to revive the car industry in Detroit
you're not going to have to invent a
more efficient battery for electric
vehicles you're gonna have to invent a
time machine okay you're gonna have to
travel back in time to the post-world
War two period when Japan was devastated
by aerial bombardment and when Europe
was devastated by aerial bombardment and
therefore those two places could not
compete with the United States of
America in manufacturing cars and
washing machines and all those things
around the world because guess what the
conditions under which you know Detroit
became this manufacturing hub that
dominated the whole world those
conditions were created by the
devastation of World War two they were
not sustainable they could not possibly
be recreated today and you know there
were a few other places that also
manufactured cars you might have heard
of like China it's not just Europe and
Japan that you'd have to compete with
now there are so many reasons
let's not even get into Mexico and so on
there are so many reasons why the
economic miracle of the post-war 1950s
economy cannot possibly happen in
America again today but that seems to be
the only promise the only hope for the
future Bernie Sanders has to offer
is this wistful memory you know looking
back so this experience you know in the
last few months of both reading about
contemporary socialism reading the
perspective of Bernie Sanders and
speaking directly to socialists and
communists it's not that it's changed my
understanding of socialism kind of on a
chalkboard in principle it's changed my
understanding of psychologically the way
the belief in socialism interacts with
the human ego in the 21st century when
so many people get involved in this
process of sharpening the knives of
their ideology in little echo chambers
on the Internet and that's you know
that's kind of what I've where I've been
challenging people you know I've been
talking to people by voice chat on
discord in these groups where it's a
whole group of left-wing people just
repeating things that are factually
false and in almost all cases they can
be disproven with a quick google search
you know whether it's claims about the
American economy and poverty and
unemployment in the United States we
will wait when was the last time you
actually looked at a chart of what
unemployment looks like in the United
States in like the last 20 years of what
what are you talking about whether it's
I mean I've heard so many kind of false
facts invoked in passing to justify kind
of you know left-wing articles of faith
but I mean I think I think the most the
most fundamental absurdity of all is
this idea of moderation being used to
justify radicalism
so the point is their claim is you
shouldn't be disillusioned with
communism you shouldn't be disillusioned
with socialism just because of the
disaster the past you should be moderate
you should quote unquote not throw the
baby out with the bathwater but what
they really mean when they say be
moderate is you should make excuses for
mass murder
you should make excuses for starvation
and economic failure
you should make excuses for radicalism
and revolution and call that moderate
because when you're living within a
left-wing echo chamber where everyone's
telling each other that the revolution
is coming and that capitalism is
unsustainable and that conditions in the
United States with only three percent
unemployment people that it's teetering
on the edge of a collapse and the poor
are about to rise up with pitchforks so
day after tomorrow they're telling each
other these things again and again and
again
without any interest in the facts they
pass a point where extremism becomes the
norm and we're making excuses for
revolution even excuses for direct
violence and purges in the name of that
revolution starts to seem to them to be
the very soul of moderation